Now our next program is
Checking a number is prime number or not.
So First of all, what is a prime number then procedure then program.
So what is a prime number.
If a number is divisible by one and itself no other number should be divided then that number is a prime
number. example
I have a number here eight.
What are the factors of a number.
1 2 4 8.
How many factors are there.
Four.
It's not a prime number.
How many factors must be there.
Only two.
Let us take another number 13.
What are the factors of 13.
13 is exactly divisible by one and  13 itself.
So how many factors are there.
Count only two.
Yes it is a prime number that one more number 15.
What are the factors 1 3 5 and 15. total
How many factors count, total 4 are there it's not a prime number.
So simple.
So do you know how to find factors.
Yes.
Already we have seen this.
Whatever the number is given we start from 1 and up to that number we will check out if it is exactly
divisible mod is zero then it is  the factor, we have already done this one time we have printing
factors.
Second time in a perfect number we have added them now what  we have to do? count them,
So yes that's all. simple change in the logic so count them, at the end check if the count is two
then is a prime number.
So how to count.
So for that I should have one variable count right. initially
count should be is equal to zero. then that count I should make it as one here.
And here it is a factor so make it two.
And that count I should make it one here because one is a factor, two is the factor.
Make it two then four the factor.
So incremented to 3, then 8 is also a factor increment 4.
So what I should do every time, count plus plus, when ever  this condition is true.
count Plus plus increment count and at the end check what is the count four.
It's not a prime, see for all of these things we have the code ready here.
This loop I'm checking but it's a fact or not than here we were printing one time we were finding sum
not here we have two count, so count I have taken, here simply write count plus plus at the end of the
table you check
So at the end of a loop check, what to check here, if count is equal to two, then it is a prime number.
So here only i will write down.
write down cout it is a prime.
It's a prime number right.
else you can write type like this also, you don't have to write the next line and again give gap, in the same line
also you can continue Cout, you can say it is not a prime number.
Yes, this is  simple finished. this is the end of the program.
So this program is for checking a if a number is prime or not.
So now in our example, this is not a prime number.
If it is 13 or 7 or 11 These are all prime numbers.
If I few prime numbers, let us see, two is a prime number three is a prime number five and seven then Eleven
and 13 then 17.
So so on like this these are the prime number 19 and 23.
These are the prime numbers all of them will have factors only two factors.
So that's what count the factors.
If there are two then say  its  a prime otherwise not a prime.
So write this program.
There is a demo also available right and there are some coding exercises do that, related to this
topic only. usually, i starts from zero when you use for loop but in our examples I was starting
from 1 onwards.
Then every time we were either adding or multiplying or checking the condition counting something
we were doing based on this one.
So all the programs that we have seen using loops,  they are on similar pattern
some minor changes are there so we learn how to add the values we learn how to check the condition right
now how to check the condition.
So these are the things we have learned so you can use them in solving other problems.
So these are the basic elements we have learned.
It's not that just we have Sol prime no. problem.
We have not just written this program.
We have learned something here right.
So like counting can be done and at the end we can check the count.
So we have got a approach here.
So this approach you have to use it in other programs.
Other exercises. that's all in this video will continue with a few more programs using loops.